refugees have continued to crowd into
Rafa close to the border with Egypt
where around a million and a half people
are now seeking safety we'll get the
latest on the ground in just a moment
but first last November we reported on
the case of a young woman and her
disabled brother tala and yazid in Rafa
they were trying to escape but were
repeatedly turned away at the border
along with their mother and siblings our
special correspondent fergo Kean has
been following the family's story we
came back to no electricity no food for
today she's been a constant caring voice
from within the siege and one more day
closer to my brother running out of
medications and we're still
here tala Abu n's daily life a
Relentless
struggle to care for her disabled
brother
yazid three times they tried to escape
Rafa like last November when our
cameraman first met them at the border
we're trying to do anything that we can
to do to survive because we just I
simply don't want to die at
24 they didn't get out of Gaza
then back home amid the constant noise
of drones overhead tala tried to comfort
[Music]
yazid and then just a few days ago we
had news from
Cairo they'd escaped to the safety of a
flat in the Egyptian Capital tala
described the moment they left I can't
hear drones anymore um and I can't see I
can't I'm sorry
um I want to be hearing any bombings or
any air strikes
and and it felt really surreal
but normality even being able to boil a
kettle for tea has brought uncomfortable
feelings this is one of the hardest
feelings to talk about
should tah carries the memory of the
people she's left
behind every time I have food to eat or
I don't have to go running for water
or or knowing that everything is
available it makes me feel even guilty
to think about everyone in Gaza the 1.2
million people who are displaced in Rafa
right
now but they had to leave yazd's
medication had run out worsening his
condition he would have a seizure every
time he he
bombing and it got really scary like his
body and his his mind is not being able
to to understand everything that's going
on tala knows a world Beyond Gaza she
studied in the US lived with an American
Family she won a fellowship for young
leaders funded by the state department
but all was coming home to yazid here
together in
2021 will she return to Gaza I ha don't
know how long is it going to take um but
I would want to be part of rebuilding it
and healing it I don't think I think
everyone who leaves Gaza Gaza still does
not leave
them the Cairo sky is safe but it's not
the sky of Home FAL Kean BBC News
[Music]
Jerusalem let's go live now to Jerusalem
and to our correspondent Paul Adams and
Paul what do we know about conditions in
southern Gaza
tonight well R you mentioned two places
in your introduction one was NASA
Hospital well the situation there is
very unclear the Israelis uh troops have
been in there since early Thursday
morning conducting searches arresting
members of Staff who they believe are
associated with Hamas and looking for
evidence that hostages were being were
being held in the hospital uh they say
that they are doing what they can to
keep the hospital running bringing in
diesel and oxygen and helping to fix a
generator Palestinian sources are saying
that the hospital is absolutely on its
last legs and in fact the head of the wh
has said that effectively NASA hospital
has ceased to function we've heard of
people dying as a result of
interruptions to power and oxygen so at
the very least it's an extremely
precarious situation in NASA hospital to
the South a little way to the south in
Rafa 1.3 million people are waiting to
find out when the Israeli military
assault will come and today a member of
Benjamin netanyahu's War cabinet Benny
gance said that if hostages are not
released by the beginning of Ramadan
that is in precisely 3 weeks then the
Israeli military assault on Rafa would
begin and the White House has demanded
that that cannot begin unless those
civilians are out of the way and at the
moment there is no plan to move them